add a CONTRIBUTING.md file to document atypical patterns in these rocks (#27)
canonical/kserve-rocks: CONTRIBUTING.md

## Summary of upstream dockerfiles

The kserve server rocks in this repo build images for the upstream dockerfiles located [here](https://github.com/kserve/kserve/tree/master/python).  These server images all have the following common traits:

* they are implemented as python packages and use [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) to manage their dependencies
* each server installs its own server-specific package (ex: [sklearn](https://github.com/kserve/kserve/tree/master/python/sklearnserver))
* they all install a common [kserve](https://github.com/kserve/kserve/tree/master/python/kserve) package

The Dockerfile for each of these images takes advantage of how each server is defined as a poetry package, using `poetry install` in the Dockerfile directly.

## Implementation details of the ROCKs in this repo

The ROCKs for the kserve servers require some atypical workarounds, mostly due to the upstream project using poetry to install its dependencies.  These are documented here in detail, and briefly noted in the rockcraft.yaml files in this repository.

### Installing Python/pip via overlay-packages

> We use overlay-packages to get a python3.10 that we can `pip install` packages into.  For some reason if we add python3.10 as a build-package, the python packages we `pip install`/`poetry install` are not added to this python but to a different one.  This problem will first show up when calling `pip install poetry; poetry config ...`, where `pip install poetry` will work fine buy `poetry config ...` will return with command not found.  

Reviewer: I assume that we don't know the rockcraft reason behind it, right? Is there a chance that python `pip` is used instead python3 `pip` and we would need `python-is-python3` package?

Reviewer: I 've used that [here](https://github.com/canonical/seldonio-rocks/blob/main/mlserver-huggingface/rockcraft.yaml#L38) (although that's not clear what this means for python in the final rock) after discussion with rockcraft in mattermost [here](https://chat.charmhub.io/charmhub/pl/6y9qic1qpjdkfnc8bdg1en5fue).

Author: `python-is-python3` can actually replace the symlink fix, but I can't get it to work as a replacement to the overlay-packages.  I might not be doing it quite right though.  

What do you say to keeping it as is for now in this doc, but then I'll test `python-is-python3` with the server images and apply a patch to them separately?

Reviewer: Sure. Let's do it this way. And if this works, we can update this doc too.

> As a workaround, we use python/pip from the `overlap-packages`, which somehow makes this work as desired.

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to submit an issue to the rockcraft project mentioning this workaround and linking it here?
I think that, while this section describes pretty well the reason to install python3.10 as an overlay package (among other pkgs), it feels like this should not be kept as is for long.

Author: 100% agree.  Let's include this as one of the items for our rockcraft feedback.  We can discuss in next week's rock meeting if that works?  I'll add this to the agenda

> As a workaround, we use python/pip from the `overlap-packages`, which somehow makes this work as desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a workaround, we use python/pip from the `overlay-packages`, which somehow makes this work as desired.
```

### Moving packages installed during the build to the final rock

> By listing `python3.10` and `python3-pip` in `overlay-packages`, rockcraft will promote python/pip to the final rock but it **does not automatically migrate any python packages we have installed**.  As a workaround, we copy the installed packages manually by copying the contents of `/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages` to `$CRAFT_PART_INSTALL`.

Reviewer: Would rockcraft migrate the packages if we had added python3.10 in build-packages instead?

Reviewer: Hmm maybe they are considered as build entities that are used to build an executable that will live in final rock? Anyway, you can resolve this.

Author: yeah maybe?  We should ask rockcraft

> By listing `python3.10` and `python3-pip` in `overlay-packages`, rockcraft will promote python/pip to the final rock but it **does not automatically migrate any python packages we have installed**.  As a workaround, we copy the installed packages manually by copying the contents of `/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages` to `$CRAFT_PART_INSTALL`.

Reviewer 2: > As a workaround, we copy the installed packages manually by copying the contents of `/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages` to `$CRAFT_PART_INSTALL`.

Should we say `$CRAFT_PART_INSTALL/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages/` instead?

Author: agreed!  Added this plus half a sentence clarifying where it that makes it end up in the final rock

### Installing kserve/server-specific package via a dummy poetry package

> When you install a local package using `poetry install`, poetry installs the root package (eg: the package you have code for locally) as editable (equivalent to doing `pip -e /my/local/package`.  Packages normally are installed by copying their code to `/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages`, but editable packages are not copied to this directory and instead just point to your local folder where you installed them from.  Because we are in the rock's build environment when we do `poetry install`, this means the package is installed pointing to its location in the build environment (eg: `/root/parts/mypart/build/mycode`) and not the final rock environment.  The result of this is the package is not actually included in the final rock.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you install a local package using `poetry install`, poetry installs the root package (eg: the package you have code for locally) as editable (equivalent to doing `pip -e /my/local/package`), while the package's dependencies are installed as non-editable (default `pip` behaviour). Normally, packages are installed by copying their code to `/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages`, but editable packages are not copied to this directory and instead just point to your local folder where you installed them from.  Because we are in the rock's build environment when we do `poetry install`, this means the package is installed pointing to its location in the build environment (eg: `/root/parts/mypart/build/mycode`) and not the final rock environment.  The result of this is the package is not actually included in the final rock.  
```
* a `)` to close the editable parentheses
* explanation that root package's dependencies are installed normally.

Feel free to reword what I 've suggested but I think we should add an explanation in order for the reader to be able to follow the argument for having a dummy poetry project.

Author: love it.  fixed!

To work around this, we define a dummy poetry project that has two dependencies, the `kserve` and server-specific python code, for example:

```
[tool.poetry]
name = "workaround-for-editable-install"
version = "0.0.1"
description = ""
authors = ["none"]

[tool.poetry.dependencies]
python = ">=3.8,<3.12"
kserve = { path = "../python/kserve", develop = false }
sklearnserver = { path = "../python/sklearnserver", develop = false }
```

> This tricks poetry into installing the dummy package as editable, but the `kserve` and server-specific packages statically (copying the files into `.../dist-packages`).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tricks poetry into installing the dummy package as editable, but the dummy package's dependencies, meaning `kserve` and server-specific packages, statically (copying the files into `.../dist-packages`).  
```

Author: Refactored this into bullets as I think it makes the sentence clearer, but otherwise accepted

This workaround is equivalent to the upstream Dockerfile doing:

```
COPY kserve/pyproject.toml kserve/poetry.lock kserve/

> RUN cd kserve && poetry install --no-root --no-interaction --no-cache

Reviewer: Would it make sense add an explanation for the poetry command args `poetry install --no-root --no-interaction --no-cache`?

Author: I added a little explanation, but I'm not 100% sure why they do what they do.  wdyt?

We use overlay-packages to get a python3.10 that we can `pip install` packages into.  For some reason if we add python3.10 as a build-package, the python packages we `pip install`/`poetry install` are not added to this python but to a different one.  This problem will first show up when calling `pip install poetry; poetry config ...`, where `pip install poetry` will work fine buy `poetry config ...` will return with command not found.  

As a workaround, we use python/pip from the `overlay-packages`, which somehow makes this work as desired.

### Moving packages installed during the build to the final rock

By listing `python3.10` and `python3-pip` in `overlay-packages`, rockcraft will promote python/pip to the final rock but it **does not automatically migrate any python packages we have installed**.  As a workaround, we copy the installed packages manually by copying the contents of `/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages` to `$CRAFT_PART_INSTALL/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages` (which will be rendered to `/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages` in the final rock.

### Installing kserve/server-specific package via a dummy poetry package

> When you install a local package using `poetry install`, poetry installs the root package (eg: the package you have code for locally) as editable (equivalent to doing `pip -e /my/local/package`), while the package's dependencies are installed as non-editable (default `pip` behaviour). Normally, packages.  Packages normally are installed by copying their code to `/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages`, but editable packages are not copied to this directory and instead just point to your local folder where you installed them from.  Because we are in the rock's build environment when we do `poetry install`, this means the package is installed pointing to its location in the build environment (eg: `/root/parts/mypart/build/mycode`) and not the final rock environment.  The result of this is the package is not actually included in the final rock.  

Reviewer: There's a typo here `Normally, packages. Packages normally are installed...`

Author: good catch!

```suggestion
When you install a local package using `poetry install`, poetry installs the root package (eg: the package you have code for locally) as editable (equivalent to doing `pip -e /my/local/package`), while the package's dependencies are installed as non-editable (default `pip` behaviour).  Packages installed normally have their code put into `/usr/local/lib/python3.10/dist-packages`, but editable packages are not copied to this directory and instead just point to your local folder where you installed them from.  Because we are in the rock's build environment when we do `poetry install`, this means the package is installed pointing to its location in the build environment (eg: `/root/parts/mypart/build/mycode`) and not the final rock environment.  The result of this is the package is not actually included in the final rock.  
```
